--- 
layout:   post
title:    Why sem4r
---

Sem4r is an adwords client library. The "Google AdWords Api":adwords_api
is a webservice soap protocol. From the official site:

bq. The Google AdWords API lets developers build applications that interact directly
with the AdWords platform. With these applications, advertisers and third
parties can more efficiently and creatively manage their large or complex
AdWords accounts and campaigns.

I used for some time adwords api for my job in PHP and sometime in Java.
Further I like to experiment in my spare time new languages, and
I found the wonderful Ruby language.

I have tryed the "adwords4r":adwords4r, the official library by Google.
And I don't like it. In my opinion is not "rubyish":rubyish and reveals
to much of the underlying lower level api.

At the best of my knowledge, the official adwords4r library
doesn't work with Ruby 1.9, because it uses "soap4r":soap4r.
The soap4r library is not supported by ruby 1.9.

The library objectives are:

* works with ruby 1.8 and 1.9
* works under linux and windows
* reduces external dependencies (soap4r,...)
* implements a consistent model to hide the low level api call
* be rubyish :-)

My personal objectives are:

* Finding spare time to dedicate to this project
  (it is the hard thing, and i am not sure to achieve it)
* Learning more about Ruby
* Learning Ruby metaprogramming techniques[1]
* Writing an (useful) library into a niche so I can write at my
  own pace without to many competitors :-P. I don't have a lot of time, so I use my spare time.
* Use English (I'm to lazy to learn it so I force myself to use it writing documentation)
* Learning to manage a little open source project.
  (Write test, write documentation, and so on).


fn1. I have bought the wonderful book "Metaprogramming Ruby":metabook published
by "The Pragmatic Programmer"

[adwords4r]http://code.google.com/p/google-api-adwords-ruby/
[adwords_api]http://code.google.com/apis/adwords/
[metabook]http://www.pragprog.com/titles/ppmetr/metaprogramming-ruby
[rubyish]http://groups.google.com/group/ruby-talk-google/browse_thread/thread/33c63f8ee59509c8/93347838cd2deb7d
[soap4r]http://dev.ctor.org/soap4r
