---
layout:   post
title:    Sem4r library profiles
published: true
---

The sem4r configuration file contains credentials to connect AdWords through
the API(Application Programming Interface).
The credentials are grouped into profiles.
So you can manage multiple AdWords accounts without having to reconfigure each time
the library.
The configuration file is located by default in _$HOME/.sem4r/sem4r.yml_.

To set up two profiles for two clients (client1, client2) and the sandbox,
_sem4r.yml_ contains the following lines:

{% highlight yaml %}
# file: sem4r.yml
client1:
  email:           client1@gmail.com
  password:        secret
  environment:     production
  developer_token: 1234567890

client2:
  email:           client2@gmail.com
  password:        big secret
  environment:     production
  developer_token: 0987654321

sandbox:
  email:           greatdeveloper@gmail.com
  password:        who care?
  developer_token: greatdeveloper@gmail.com++EUR
{% endhighlight %}

Sem is a command line interface for the sem4r library.
Sem run commands on an AdWords account.
A sem4r library profile can be selected using -p switch of sem executable.

The following command lists the reports for the profile "client1":

{% highlight bash %}
$ sem -p client1 reports
{% endhighlight %}

The list of reports in the sandbox is always the same :-)

{% highlight bash %}
$ sem -p sandbox reports

11 'report [11]' Pending
22 'report [22]' InProgress
33 'report [33]' Completed
44 'report [44]' Failed
4 unit spent for 4 operations in 81ms
{% endhighlight %}

However the default profile is the _sandbox_ so the above command can be written as:

{% highlight bash %}
$ sem reports
{% endhighlight %}
